# tableau-challenge
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jacob.anderson2507/viz/TableauChallenge_17024457932610/Story1?publish=yes

# Analysis

## Member-Casual Comparison
When looking at the Member-Casual dashboard, I was curious to see if there were any specific points where there was a drastically higher proportion of either members of the service or just casual users, but upon creating the map to visualize the locations, the only thing that stuck out to me was that there seemed to be far more causal users than members based on the view of the map. However, once I made the Member-Casual Bar Graph it became clear that the opposite was the case, and that the majority of the people using the service are members and not casual users. To improve the map for the future, I would likely lower the opacity of the location markers so you could see the orange dots more clearly under the blue dots.

## Starting Terminal Speculation
Now that I knew the member distribution, I was curious where people were starting their journeys from most frequently, so I made a map to visualize that as well. This time, since the points on the map had different weights to them, I could size the points based on the count of people starting their travel from that location, so it made the visual a little bit easier to see exactly where the most starting traffic was occuring. It looked like some of the biggest spots were around Downtown Jersey City and the South Eastern Hoboken area, so I made the Start Station Treemap to see what the top ten starting terminal names were and if my initial analysis was correct. Once it was completed, it seemed that I was correct, especially with all of the significant clusters in that Southeastern Hoboken area, and Grove St PATH being the highest 

## Ending Terminal Speculation
These visualizations lead to me to the what I felt was clearly the next step in the process: where do all of those people end up? So I made another map to display the most popular ending terminals using the same formatting principles as the map of the starting terminals, and the results weren't quite as exciting or different as I had hoped. It was interesting to see all of the miscellaneous points on the map that had one lone traveler end their journey there, but as far as the most popular ending destinations, it was largely the same culprits, albeit slightly shuffled around. Southeastern Hoboken was still an impactful area, and Grove St PATH was the most popular ending terminal.

## Start Time Intrigue
At this point, I knew who was on these rides, and where they were starting and stopping, but I was curious about when these rides were occuring. I started off by making a simple line graph (Start Weekday Line) to get a visual on which days of the week people were most frequently going on rides. Predictably the three highest days were Friday, Saturday, and Sunday in that order, with Monday rounding out the bottom at about 40% less rides than the peak on Friday. Those weekend days are the days that people tend to have the most free time to be out and about and have some fun like renting a bike, so it makes sense that they would be the peak. Diving a little bit deeper, I wanted to see what the hourly breakdown looked like, so I made a box and whisker plot (Start Time Whisker) to gauge which times of the day are the biggest outliers for travel, and which time was the most average. 7:00 AM and 9:00 AM were the two times closest to the average, which I would guess to be folks renting bikes to commute to their jobs or getting some exercise on. On the two extremeties of this plot were 4:00 AM and 5:00 PM as the lowest and highest points respectively. This makes a ton of sense as well, as I wouldn't expect many people to be looking to go for a ride at 4:00 in the morning. 5:00 PM once again lines up with the workday for many people, but this time they may not have as many places to be afterwards, especially on those peak Fridays, so we might expect people to take a load off from a long week by taking a ride on a bike right after work. 
